Why do engineers need to be a green software engineers?
Climate change refers to long-term shifts in temperatures and weather patterns.
Since the 1800s, human activity has been the main driver of climate change,
primarily due to the burning of fossil fuels like coal, oil, and gas.
In recent years, increasing numbers of organisations have committed to climate goals in order to transition to net zero.
In the software space, the part we play is building carbon-efficient applications.
This means building applications that add the same value for you or your users, but which also emit less carbon.
What is Green Software?
Green Software engineering is where innovation meets sustainability.
It is an emerging discipline at the intersection of climate science, software design, electricity markets, hardware,
and data centre design with the ultimate goal of creating carbon efficient applications.
There are three main activities that reduce the carbon emissions of software: energy efficiency, carbon awareness, and hardware efficiency.
This training shows you how to define, build, and run green software applications
irrespective of the domain, industry, organization size or type (cloud vendor or self-hosted), programming language or framework.
In this module, we'll explore these concepts—explaining how to integrate them into your processes and why they matter.